# BachelorThesis

This bachelor thesis presents Identity Management Provisioning (IMP) as a possibility for solving problems of user profile-based identity management systems. IMP provides identity management as a service to users and Service Providers. It enables users to create an IMP identity and use it to share personal information and exchange messages with multiple Service Providers. In order for Service Providers with existing user profile-based identity management systems to utilize IMP, integration into their existing business processes and existing system architectures is necessary. Two IMP solutions which describe how Service Providers can utilize IMP and one messaging system for technological integration are presented. The purpose of IMP solutions is to describe possibilities to increase usability, data protection and security of identity management through the utilization of the IMP service. The IMP solutions are designed, based on the currently relevant use case of the Online Access Law (Online Zugangs Gesetz - OZG). The first IMP solution describes the possibility of enabling users to create user profiles, maintain personal information, and interact through an IMP application. This integration approach is designed to increase usability while minimizing the risk, complexity, and cost of integration. As a result of leaving user profile-based identity management in operation, problems regarding data protection remain. A second IMP solution is presented to increase data protection by replacing user profiles. Instead, users temporarily share personal information for individual business processes. For the integration of IMP solutions, a messaging system is presented which is capable of integrating IMP into existing system architectures of Service Providers. In addition to messaging, a modular approach enables the integration architecture to be configurable and expandable to integrate various IMP solutions into different system architectures. The capabilities of the messaging system are demonstrated by integrating the previously described, fundamentally different IMP solutions into different system architectures in the context of the OZG.
